---
layout: post
title: Julia de Burgos
author: Julia de Burgos
editor: Alex Gil
source: City Seva
---

- Already the people murmur that I am your enemy
- because they say that in verse I give the world my self.

- They lie, * Julia de Burgos *. They lie, Julia de Burgos.
- The one that stands up in my verses is not your voice: it's my voice
- because you are [clothing] (http://www.spanishdict.com/translate/ropaje) and the essence is me; and the most
- Deep abyss lies between the two.

- You're a cool social lying doll,
- And I, virile flash of the human truth.

- You, honey of courtesan hypocrisy; I do not;
- that in all my poems I bare my heart.

- You are like your world, selfish;
- I do not; that in everything I play it to be what I am.

- You are only the serious lady lady; I do not,
- I am the life, the strength, the woman.

- You are your husband, your master; I do not;
- I from nobody, or from everyone, because everyone, to
- all in my clean feeling and in my thinking I give myself.

- You curl your hair and paint yourself; I do not;
- The wind curls me, the sun paints me.

- You are a lady, resigned, submissive,
- tied to the prejudices of men; I do not;
- that I am Rocinante running runaway
- sniffing horizons of God's justice.

- You in yourself do not send;
- they all send you; your husband sends you, your
- parents, your relatives, the priest, the dressmaker,
- the theater, the casino, the car,
- the jewels, the banquet, the champagne, the sky
- and hell, and who will say social.

- Not me, that my only heart sends me,
- my only thought; whoever commands in me is me.

- You, flower of aristocracy; and I, the flower of the town.
- You have everything in you and everyone
- You owe it, while I, my nothing to anyone, I owe.

- You, nailed to the static ancestral dividend,
- and I, a one in the number of the divisor
- Social we are the duel to death that approaches fatal.

- When the crowds run riot
- leaving behind the ashes of burned injustices,
- and when with the tea of ​​the seven virtues,
- after the seven sins, the crowds run,
- against you, and against everything unfair and inhuman,
- I will go in the middle of them with the tea in your hand.